I want to focus on evaluating your market share.
Your market share is an important metric to determining
how your business is doing relative to your competition.
This provides a good indication of where you have opportunity and it also
provides an excellent way to monitor your growth within that target market.
A market size analytics is also used to determine how big
the market is for your products and services and whether there is any growth potential.
Now, the size of a market is typically measured in volume or value.
For example, if 100 widgets are sold worldwide and we know that we sold 10 of them,
then we can say that we have 10 percent of the market share.
Alternatively, if we know that 100 widgets are sold worldwide for $10 each,
then we can say the current value of this market is $1,000.
If we sold $100 of those widgets,
then we could also arrive at our 10 percent market share.
Now, market definitions are not trivial.
You can compare markets by geographic areas,
customer segments, sales channels, and so on.
If you see your market to broadly,
you might fail because you have no focus.
If you see it too narrow,
you might miss opportunities and allow competitors to creep in.
Let's look at the various ways that we can calculate market share.